Dear Mr. Bhattacharya:

Manuscript ID TOMPECS-2024-0030.R1 entitled "Impact of Network Topology on Byzantine Resilience in Decentralized Federated Learning" which you submitted to the Transactions on Modeling and Performance Evaluation of Computing Systems, has been reviewed.  The comments of the reviewers and the Associate Editor are included at the bottom of this letter.

The reviewers are still recommending major revisions to this manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the reviewers' comments and revise your manuscript. Please note that the reviewers and the Associate Editor are clear that several important concerns remain (relative to the previous round of recommendations). Both reviewers and the Associate Editor outline specific steps that need to be taken to revise the manuscript. I hope you will consider their suggestions.

To revise your manuscript, log into https://urldefense.com/v3/__https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/tompecs__;!!HXCxUKc!2iGsd4uT6YSoADU-RUvyZrZZeiFQFJyO0_FHl-CtftgBx2PzB_XHe0AOQu1hJhLppu2WPMAZPE_6pBPHVikFpYRz2v4$  and enter your Author Center, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."  Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision."  Your manuscript number has been appended to denote a revision.

You may also click the below link to start the revision process (or continue the process if you have already started your revision) for your manuscript. If you use the below link you will not be required to login to ScholarOne Manuscripts.

*** PLEASE NOTE: This is a two-step process. After clicking on the link, you will be directed to a webpage to confirm. ***

https://urldefense.com/v3/__https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/tompecs?URL_MASK=e401f30bafc9487eb38366db76fb841c__;!!HXCxUKc!2iGsd4uT6YSoADU-RUvyZrZZeiFQFJyO0_FHl-CtftgBx2PzB_XHe0AOQu1hJhLppu2WPMAZPE_6pBPHVikFY_CsK1M$


You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.  Instead, revise your manuscript using a word processing program and save it on your computer.  Please also highlight the changes to your manuscript within the document by using the track changes mode in MS Word or by using bold or colored text.

Once the revised manuscript is prepared, you can upload it and submit it through your Author Center.

When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the reviewer(s) in the space provided.  You can use this space to document any changes you make to the original manuscript.  In order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the reviewer(s).

IMPORTANT:  Your original files are available to you when you upload your revised manuscript.  Please delete any redundant files before completing the submission.

Because we are trying to facilitate timely publication of manuscripts submitted to the Transactions on Modeling and Performance Evaluation of Computing Systems, your revised manuscript should be submitted by 22-Jan-2025.  If it is not possible for you to submit your revision by this date, we may have to consider your paper as a new submission.

Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to the Transactions on Modeling and Performance Evaluation of Computing Systems and I look forward to receiving your revision.

Sincerely,
Leana

Prof. Leana Golubchik
Editor-in-Chief, Transactions on Modeling and Performance Evaluation of Computing Systems
leana@usc.edu

Associate Editor Comments to Author:

Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
The authors have addressed some concerns from the previous round of review, but several important concerns remain. In particular, the manuscript as written does not make clear which results are "surprising" and provide insights beyond what is already known or expected from the existing literature on theoretical or experimental investigations of Byzantine resilience in multi-agent optimization. Pointing these out, or conducting more experiments that reveal such unexpected insights, would greatly strengthen the paper. For example, federated learning is a special case of distributed multi-agent optimization--why would we expect it to behave differently under Byzantine attacks? I agree with Reviewer 1 that the author response, which points out the high dimensionality of machine learning, does not sufficiently address this question.

The reviewers also point out that several limitations of the paper, e.g., considering only the simple MNIST dataset and two types of network topologies, have not been addressed. I also concur with the reviewers that showing the range of experimental results would be beneficial; even showing evidence that they are tightly clustered around the mean, as claimed in the response, would be useful information to show the reader.


Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:

Reviewer: 1

Comments to the Author
Most of my concerns remain. Vector-input optimization and high-dimensional ML are essentially the same unless the scaling of the dimensions is clearly characterized which is not considered here. The experiments added, i.e., sign-flip attack and trimmed means, those are very basic. Hence, the experiments are still limited. The reviewer did agree that MNIST is used as one of the baselines. Yet, experiments based on MNIST only are not sufficient. At least CIFAR10 should be considered.

Reviewer: 2

Comments to the Author
Thank you for your response and efforts to address the concerns raised in the previous review comments. Here are some follow-up comments I have on the latest version:

1. "We find that multiple runs of the same experimental setup are typically identical, ..."

I still think, given that this paper is an experiment-oriented study, it would be better to include as many experimental results as possible. Since the authors have already conducted multiple runs under the same setups, such results can be aggregated into a single plot, for example, showing the average accuracy and standard deviation. It would be better, in my opinion, to present those results instead of omitting them, to make the paper more convincing.

As a side note, I assume that multiple runs of the same setup you've mentioned would have used different randomness seeds to generate, e.g., the network, the partition of the dataset, the initial estimate, the computation of stochastic gradients, etc, so their results could be similar but definitely not identical.

2. "It is true that failure of convergence is expected when over half of the nodes in the network are Byzantine ..."

The reason I mentioned this issue, that it is already expected to not converge when Byzantine proportion >50%, is that these results do not add to the paper's contribution. From my perspective, it would be more interesting to see the differences in the actual performance of the algorithms when facing different proportions of Byzantine agents, e.g., 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, ..., instead of confirming that the algorithms will indeed fail when >50%. I think the paper would contribute more if the authors could add some experiments showing this kind of results.

It is worth noting that even some theory-oriented papers on this topic have tested different failure proportions in their experiment sections before, e.g., Figures 5 and 6 in [A] and Figure 2 in [B]. It is expected that an experiment-oriented paper will do a more comprehensive study.


Typos:

Line 251: "... determine the degree of each node to be *4*."
Line 435: Fig. 3(a) "*AAccuracy* of Krum ..."


Ref.
[A] Blanchard, Peva, et al. "Machine learning with adversaries: Byzantine tolerant gradient descent." Advances in neural information processing systems 30 (2017).
[B] Liu, Shuo, Nirupam Gupta, and Nitin H. Vaidya. "Impact of redundancy on resilience in distributed optimization and learning." Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Distributed Computing and Networking. 2023.
message.txt
8 KB